# API Integration

_How does a bearer token work? Bearer Token A security token with the property that any party in possession of the token (a “bearer”) can use the token in any way that any other party in possession of it can. Using a bearer token does not require a bearer to prove possession of cryptographic key material (proof-of-possession)._


_How secure is bearer token? OAuth 2.0 bearer tokens depend solely on SSL/TLS for its security, there is no internal protection or bearer tokens. if you have the token you are the owner. In many API providers who relay on OAuth 2.0 they put in bold that client developers should store securely and protect the token during it is transmission._

# HOW DOES A BEARER TOKEN WORK? – ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
### How long does a bearer token last?
A valid bearer token (with active access_token or refresh_token properties) keeps the user’s authentication alive without requiring him or her to re-enter their credentials frequently. The access_token can be used for as long as it’s active, which is up to one hour after login or renewal.

### What is difference between bearer token and JWT?
JWT can be used for many things, among those are bearer tokens, i.e. a piece of information that you can present to some service that by virtue of you having it (you being the “bearer”) grants you access to something.

### How do I get access token to API?
Sending an access token in a request

When you put a VerifyAccessToken policy at the front of your API proxy flow, apps must present a verifiable access token (also called a “bearer token”) to consume your API. To do this, the app sends the access token in the request as an “Authorization” HTTP header.

### How do I send a bearer token in header?
Bearer token

The token is a text string, included in the request header. In the request Authorization tab, select Bearer Token from the Type dropdown list. In the Token field, enter your API key value—or for added security, store it in a variable and reference the variable by name.

### How can I see my bearer token in Chrome?
Chrome has an in-memory cache of access tokens, so you can call getAuthToken any time you need to use a token. Token expiration is handled automatically by the cache. You can see the current state of the token cache on chrome://identity-internals .

### What is bearer access token?
Bearer Tokens are the predominant type of access token used with OAuth 2.0. A Bearer Token is an opaque string, not intended to have any meaning to clients using it. Some servers will issue tokens that are a short string of hexadecimal characters, while others may use structured tokens such as JSON Web Tokens.

### How is OAuth token verified?
The token can be verified via introspect endpoint or by signature. The most common way to build built-in token verification into the system is to introspect the token on the API Gateway and verify the signature on other services.

### How do I know if my token is working?
When the Token is functioning properly, the green light should be blinking once every minute. If you see a red blinking light, or when there is no light, this means the Token is not working. You need to replace your Token if it is lost, faulty, damaged, or when the battery is low.

### What does bearer token look like?
Bearer token is one or more repetition of alphabet, digit, “-” , “.” , “_” , “~” , “+” , “/” followed by 0 or more “=”. It looks like Base64 but according to Should the token in the header be base64 encoded?, it is not.

#### What is bearer token in REST API?
The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources: Authorization: Bearer

### What type of token is?
Tokens are the smallest elements of a program, which are meaningful to the compiler. The following are the types of tokens: Keywords, Identifiers, Constant, Strings, Operators, etc.

### What is difference between OAuth and bearer token?
Bearer tokens do not provide internal security mechanisms. They can be copied or stolen but are easier to implement. Much easier to work with. OAuth 2.0 is much more usable, but much more difficult to build securely.

### How long is an OAuth token valid?
By default, access tokens are valid for 60 days and programmatic refresh tokens are valid for a year. The member must reauthorize your application when refresh tokens expire.

### Do tokens expire?

### How long should access tokens live?
The access token is set with a reasonably lower expiration time of 30 mins. The refresh token is set with a very long expiration time of 200 days. If the traffic to this API is 10 requests/second, then it can generate as many as 864,000 tokens in a day.

### Can a JWT be a bearer token?
JSON Web Token (JWT, RFC 7519) is a way to encode claims in a JSON document that is then signed. JWTs can be used as OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens to encode all relevant parts of an access token into the access token itself instead of having to store them in a database.

Is JWT access token?
JWT access tokens

JSON Web Token (JWT) access tokens conform to the JWT standard and contain information about an entity in the form of claims. They are self-contained therefore it is not necessary for the recipient to call a server to validate the token.

### How do I get my Auth0 access token?
To get an access token, you request one when authenticating a user. These Auth0 tools help you modify your app to authenticate users: Quickstarts: The easiest way to implement authentication, which can show you how to use Universal Login, the Lock widget, and Auth0’s language and framework-specific SDKs.

### What is access token?
An access token is a tiny piece of code that contains a large amount of data. Information about the user, permissions, groups, and timeframes is embedded within one token that passes from a server to a user’s device. Plenty of websites use access tokens.

### How do I use authentication token?
Tokens: The server communicates with the authentication device, like a ring, key, phone, or similar device. After verification, the server issues a token and passes it to the user. Storage: The token sits within the user’s browser while work continues.

